Chapter - 55: Ar-Rahmaan

Verse - 1: The Most Merciful
Verse - 2: Taught the Qur'an,
Verse - 3: Created man,
Verse - 4: [And] taught him eloquence.
Verse - 5: The sun and the moon [move] by precise calculation,
Verse - 6: And the stars and trees prostrate.
Verse - 7: And the heaven He raised and imposed the balance
Verse - 8: That you not transgress within the balance.
Verse - 9: And establish weight in justice and do not make deficient the balance.
Verse - 10: And the earth He laid [out] for the creatures.
Verse - 11: Therein is fruit and palm trees having sheaths [of dates]
Verse - 12: And grain having husks and scented plants.
Verse - 13: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 14: He created man from clay like [that of] pottery.
Verse - 15: And He created the jinn from a smokeless flame of fire.
Verse - 16: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 17: [He is] Lord of the two sunrises and Lord of the two sunsets.
Verse - 18: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 19: He released the two seas, meeting [side by side];
Verse - 20: Between them is a barrier [so] neither of them transgresses.
Verse - 21: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 22: From both of them emerge pearl and coral.
Verse - 23: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 24: And to Him belong the ships [with sails] elevated in the sea like mountains.
Verse - 25: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 26: Everyone upon the earth will perish,
Verse - 27: And there will remain the Face of your Lord, Owner of Majesty and Honor.
Verse - 28: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 29: Whoever is within the heavens and earth asks Him; every day He is bringing about a matter.
Verse - 30: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 31: We will attend to you, O prominent beings.
Verse - 32: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 33: O company of jinn and mankind, if you are able to pass beyond the regions of the heavens and the earth, then pass. You will not pass except by authority [from Allah].
Verse - 34: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 35: There will be sent upon you a flame of fire and smoke, and you will not defend yourselves.
Verse - 36: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 37: And when the heaven is split open and becomes rose-colored like oil -
Verse - 38: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny? -
Verse - 39: Then on that Day none will be asked about his sin among men or jinn.
Verse - 40: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 41: The criminals will be known by their marks, and they will be seized by the forelocks and the feet.
Verse - 42: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 43: This is Hell, which the criminals deny.
Verse - 44: They will go around between it and scalding water, heated [to the utmost degree].
Verse - 45: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 46: But for he who has feared the position of his Lord are two gardens -
Verse - 47: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny? -
Verse - 48: Having [spreading] branches.
Verse - 49: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 50: In both of them are two springs, flowing.
Verse - 51: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 52: In both of them are of every fruit, two kinds.
Verse - 53: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 54: [They are] reclining on beds whose linings are of silk brocade, and the fruit of the two gardens is hanging low.
Verse - 55: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 56: In them are women limiting [their] glances, untouched before them by man or jinni -
Verse - 57: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny? -
Verse - 58: As if they were rubies and coral.
Verse - 59: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 60: Is the reward for good [anything] but good?
Verse - 61: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 62: And below them both [in excellence] are two [other] gardens -
Verse - 63: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny? -
Verse - 64: Dark green [in color].
Verse - 65: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 66: In both of them are two springs, spouting.
Verse - 67: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 68: In both of them are fruit and palm trees and pomegranates.
Verse - 69: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 70: In them are good and beautiful women -
Verse - 71: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny? -
Verse - 72: Fair ones reserved in pavilions -
Verse - 73: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny? -
Verse - 74: Untouched before them by man or jinni -
Verse - 75: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny? -
Verse - 76: Reclining on green cushions and beautiful fine carpets.
Verse - 77: So which of the favors of your Lord would you deny?
Verse - 78: Blessed is the name of your Lord, Owner of Majesty and Honor.
