Chapter - 54: Al-Qamar

Verse - 1: The Hour has come near, and the moon has split [in two].
Verse - 2: And if they see a miracle, they turn away and say, "Passing magic."
Verse - 3: And they denied and followed their inclinations. But for every matter is a [time of] settlement.
Verse - 4: And there has already come to them of information that in which there is deterrence -
Verse - 5: Extensive wisdom - but warning does not avail [them].
Verse - 6: So leave them, [O Muhammad]. The Day the Caller calls to something forbidding,
Verse - 7: Their eyes humbled, they will emerge from the graves as if they were locusts spreading,
Verse - 8: Racing ahead toward the Caller. The disbelievers will say, "This is a difficult Day."
Verse - 9: The people of Noah denied before them, and they denied Our servant and said, "A madman," and he was repelled.
Verse - 10: So he invoked his Lord, "Indeed, I am overpowered, so help."
Verse - 11: Then We opened the gates of the heaven with rain pouring down
Verse - 12: And caused the earth to burst with springs, and the waters met for a matter already predestined.
Verse - 13: And We carried him on a [construction of] planks and nails,
Verse - 14: Sailing under Our observation as reward for he who had been denied.
Verse - 15: And We left it as a sign, so is there any who will remember?
Verse - 16: And how [severe] were My punishment and warning.
Verse - 17: And We have certainly made the Qur'an easy for remembrance, so is there any who will remember?
Verse - 18: 'Aad denied; and how [severe] were My punishment and warning.
Verse - 19: Indeed, We sent upon them a screaming wind on a day of continuous misfortune,
Verse - 20: Extracting the people as if they were trunks of palm trees uprooted.
Verse - 21: And how [severe] were My punishment and warning.
Verse - 22: And We have certainly made the Qur'an easy for remembrance, so is there any who will remember?
Verse - 23: Thamud denied the warning
Verse - 24: And said, "Is it one human being among us that we should follow? Indeed, we would then be in error and madness.
Verse - 25: Has the message been sent down upon him from among us? Rather, he is an insolent liar."
Verse - 26: They will know tomorrow who is the insolent liar.
Verse - 27: Indeed, We are sending the she-camel as trial for them, so watch them and be patient.
Verse - 28: And inform them that the water is shared between them, each [day of] drink attended [by turn].
Verse - 29: But they called their companion, and he dared and hamstrung [her].
Verse - 30: And how [severe] were My punishment and warning.
Verse - 31: Indeed, We sent upon them one blast from the sky, and they became like the dry twig fragments of an [animal] pen.
Verse - 32: And We have certainly made the Qur'an easy for remembrance, so is there any who will remember?
Verse - 33: The people of Lot denied the warning.
Verse - 34: Indeed, We sent upon them a storm of stones, except the family of Lot - We saved them before dawn
Verse - 35: As favor from us. Thus do We reward he who is grateful.
Verse - 36: And he had already warned them of Our assault, but they disputed the warning.
Verse - 37: And they had demanded from him his guests, but We obliterated their eyes, [saying], "Taste My punishment and warning."
Verse - 38: And there came upon them by morning an abiding punishment.
Verse - 39: So taste My punishment and warning.
Verse - 40: And We have certainly made the Qur'an easy for remembrance, so is there any who will remember?
Verse - 41: And there certainly came to the people of Pharaoh warning.
Verse - 42: They denied Our signs, all of them, so We seized them with a seizure of one Exalted in Might and Perfect in Ability.
Verse - 43: Are your disbelievers better than those [former ones], or have you immunity in the scripture?
Verse - 44: Or do they say, "We are an assembly supporting [each other]"?
Verse - 45: [Their] assembly will be defeated, and they will turn their backs [in retreat].
Verse - 46: But the Hour is their appointment [for due punishment], and the Hour is more disastrous and more bitter.
Verse - 47: Indeed, the criminals are in error and madness.
Verse - 48: The Day they are dragged into the Fire on their faces [it will be said], "Taste the touch of Saqar."
Verse - 49: Indeed, all things We created with predestination.
Verse - 50: And Our command is but one, like a glance of the eye.
Verse - 51: And We have already destroyed your kinds, so is there any who will remember?
Verse - 52: And everything they did is in written records.
Verse - 53: And every small and great [thing] is inscribed.
Verse - 54: Indeed, the righteous will be among gardens and rivers,
Verse - 55: In a seat of honor near a Sovereign, Perfect in Ability.
