Chapter - 83: Al-Mutaffifin

Verse - 1: Woe to those who give less [than due],
Verse - 2: Who, when they take a measure from people, take in full.
Verse - 3: But if they give by measure or by weight to them, they cause loss.
Verse - 4: Do they not think that they will be resurrected
Verse - 5: For a tremendous Day -
Verse - 6: The Day when mankind will stand before the Lord of the worlds?
Verse - 7: No! Indeed, the record of the wicked is in sijjeen.
Verse - 8: And what can make you know what is sijjeen?
Verse - 9: It is [their destination recorded in] a register inscribed.
Verse - 10: Woe, that Day, to the deniers,
Verse - 11: Who deny the Day of Recompense.
Verse - 12: And none deny it except every sinful transgressor.
Verse - 13: When Our verses are recited to him, he says, "Legends of the former peoples."
Verse - 14: No! Rather, the stain has covered their hearts of that which they were earning.
Verse - 15: No! Indeed, from their Lord, that Day, they will be partitioned.
Verse - 16: Then indeed, they will [enter and] burn in Hellfire.
Verse - 17: Then it will be said [to them], "This is what you used to deny."
Verse - 18: No! Indeed, the record of the righteous is in 'illiyyun.
Verse - 19: And what can make you know what is 'illiyyun?
Verse - 20: It is [their destination recorded in] a register inscribed
Verse - 21: Which is witnessed by those brought near [to Allah].
Verse - 22: Indeed, the righteous will be in pleasure
Verse - 23: On adorned couches, observing.
Verse - 24: You will recognize in their faces the radiance of pleasure.
Verse - 25: They will be given to drink [pure] wine [which was] sealed.
Verse - 26: The last of it is musk. So for this let the competitors compete.
Verse - 27: And its mixture is of Tasneem,
Verse - 28: A spring from which those near [to Allah] drink.
Verse - 29: Indeed, those who committed crimes used to laugh at those who believed.
Verse - 30: And when they passed by them, they would exchange derisive glances.
Verse - 31: And when they returned to their people, they would return jesting.
Verse - 32: And when they saw them, they would say, "Indeed, those are truly lost."
Verse - 33: But they had not been sent as guardians over them.
Verse - 34: So Today those who believed are laughing at the disbelievers,
Verse - 35: On adorned couches, observing.
Verse - 36: Have the disbelievers [not] been rewarded [this Day] for what they used to do?
